Yes, status reports can be useful and why do we do them?
We want to enable clarity and accountability to the actions
that your team has just accomplished.
Whether or not your boss asks you for a status report,
writing one can be a good opportunity to effectively
communicate your accomplishments.
A good status report would not only keep your boss and customers up to speed,
but also help keep you on track with your assignments.
It actually is very helpful to keep you on track.
Here are the fundamentals of writing a reader
friendly status report in this section.
Also, we always want to keep in mind our 5 C's that we learned before.
Okay, let's get started.
Here is probably what most people think about writing status reports.
Management wants weekly status reports, of course,
but no one reads those anyway.
Oh, what's the point?
When I ask someone for a status report, usually their eyes just gloss over.
They just don't get it.
I'm here to tell you that you are now the leader and
you will need to lead your team,
which means make sure they understand the clear and
important essentials of writing status reports.
So as the new leader of your team,
you will probably not relish the fact that you will now need to
write not one but maybe a couple per week.
I'm here to tell you that this is truly important,
truly can be used to not only inform the recipients (your customers,
your managers, etc.
),
but provide a platform to display and promote your
team's activities and accomplishments.
Status reports are not career killers but career enablers if done right.
Okay,
now let's explore why they are important and I know
you didn't want to hear that, but you are a leader now and you will need to begin acting like one.